Reduce cross-zonal traffic in istio ingress gateway (#6997)
gardener/gardener: docs/usage/istio.md

- Kubernetes `Service`, Istio's `VirtualService` and `ServiceEntry` are **NOT** advertised in the service mesh. This means that if a `Service` needs to be accessed directly from the Istio Ingress Gateway, it should have `networking.istio.io/exportTo: "*"` annotation. `VirtualService` and `ServiceEntry` must have `.spec.exportTo: ["*"]` set on them respectively.
- Istio injector is not enabled.
- mTLS is enabled by default.

## Handling multiple availability zones with Istio

> For various reasons, e.g. improved resiliency to certain failures, it may be beneficial to use multiple availability zones in a seed cluster. While availability zones have advantages in being able to cover some failure domains they also come with some additional challenges. Most notably, the latency across availability zone boundaries is higher than within an availability zone. Furthermore, there might be additional cost implied by crossing an availability zone boundary. Therefore, it may be useful to try to keep traffic within an availability zone if possible. The istio deployment as part of Gardener has been adapted to allow this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For various reasons, e.g. improved resiliency to certain failures, it may be beneficial to use multiple availability zones in a seed cluster. While availability zones have advantages in being able to cover some failure domains, they also come with some additional challenges. Most notably, the latency across availability zone boundaries is higher than within an availability zone. Furthermore, there might be additional cost implied by network trffic crossing an availability zone boundary. Therefore, it may be useful to try to keep traffic within an availability zone if possible. The istio deployment as part of Gardener has been adapted to allow this.
```

Author: Updated accordingly with next commit, but added an additional 'a' to make 'traffic' more readable.

The goal is achieved by using multiple istio ingress gateways. The default istio ingress gateway spans all availability zones. It is used for multi-zonal shoot control planes. For each availability zone, there is an additional istio ingress gateway, which is utilized only for single-zone shoot control planes pinned to this availability zone. This is illustrated in the following diagram.

![Multi Availability Zone Handling in Istio](./images/multi-zonal-istio.png)

Please note that operators may need to perform additional tuning to prevent cross-zonal traffic completely. The [loadbalancer settings in the seed specification](seed_settings.md#load-balancer-services) offer various options, e.g. by setting the external traffic policy to `local` or using infrastructure specific loadbalancer annotations.

> Furthermore note that this approach is also taken in case [exposure classes](exposureclasses.md) are used. For each exposure class, additional zonal istio ingress gateways may be deployed to cover for single-zone shoot control planes using the exposure class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, note that this approach is also taken in case [`ExposureClass`es](exposureclasses.md) are used. For each exposure class, additional zonal istio ingress gateways may be deployed to cover for single-zone shoot control planes using the exposure class.
```

Author: Updated accordingly with the next commit.
